# Prime Number Multiplication

The project multiplies two Prime number arrays of same length and produces a matrix like output.

## Getting Started

These instructions will get you a copy of the code up and running on your local machine for development and testing purposes.

### Prerequisites

Things need to be installed

```
php 7
composer

```

** you don't need a composer, as I've included the packages installed in the repository.

### Installing

Clone the code into your local machine

```
git clone https://github.com/samreiah/primemultiplication.git
```

### Running the Tests

Traverse into the root directory through command tool (git bash / terminal) of the project and then run the following code 

```
vendor/bin/phpunit tests
```

### Running the code

Traverse into the root directory through command tool (git bash / terminal) of the project and then run the following code 

** Here 10 is the parameter, you can send any whole number as parameter where the parameter should be greater than 0

```
php index.php count=10
```

## Directory Structure

    .
    ├── tests                    
    │   └── PrimeTest.php       # Testcases with phpunit
    ├── utils                   
    │   └── Prime.php           # All Application logics are in this class 
    ├── vendor                  # Libraries used ("monolog/monolog", "phpunit/phpunit" and its dependencies)
    ├── .gitignore              # file to mention the files to be excluded from version control
    ├── composer.json           # package manager for php
    ├── composer.lock
    ├── index.php               # Code Entry file
    └── README.md

## Explaination

index.php requires count of first n prime numbers

Generating first n prime numbers and storing in two arrays $x and $y .
this is generated by the function  `getFirstNPrimeNumbers` which is in utils/Prime.php class.

Now inorder to make the table clear, all cells of the table should be of same width.
To find out the width, get the maximum result, usually this is achived by multiplying both the nth element of two arrays $x and $y
add two (denotes two spaces) to the digits of maximum result. 
the total string length will be the cell size.
This logic is generated by the function `getcellSize` which is in utils/Prime.php class.

We have both the arrays and the cell size . the next job is to print the matrix.
the multiplication and printing is done by `multiplyAndPrintMatrix` which is in utils/Prime.php class.

first print the $x 
Then a blank line with dashes

loop through $y and on each iteration again loop through $x multiplying the corresponding items will give the result.
print the string using `str_pad` with size and space.
